>> I remember one day realizing
something that shocked me.
I would wake up in the morning,
and I'd have quiet time
before I went to work.
And I'd be drinking coffee
and reading the newspaper,
and I wasn't there.
Where was I?
I was at work.
I was in fictitious
meetings that, by the way,
never happened.
And my boss would
ask me a question,
and I'd come up with
a brilliant answer.
And I would play
this out in my mind,
because I was thinking about
the past and the future.
And I realized the vast
majority of my day,
my body would be right here,
my life would be right here,
and I was here, or I was here.
It was like a
light bulb went on.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In some part of your lifetime,
there's a point where you say,
there has to be more
to life than what
I'm experiencing here.
And that's the very moment
you start to look for more.
The reason you're in this body
is to experience that ongoing--
that underlying reality
of everything you.
Not to think about it,
not to read about it,
but to actually move into
a direct experience of it.
It's the same thing with
peace and stillness.
Taste it, experience it, stop
grinding and thinking on it.
You can think about it, think
about it, think about it,
and then you're going to die.
Or you can say, how
do I bathe in peace
and absolute pristine
stillness forever.
How do I do that?
And how do I do it soon?
That's your choice.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It wasn't far
from here, actually,
quite a few years ago that I
was skiing with a bunch of mates
back country.
It was a beautiful day.
We were skiing down a slope.
It was just the
[? serendest ?] explosion.
We got caught in an avalanche,
and next thing, I'm under.
The surprising thing was
that when I went under,
I just had this
overwhelming sense of peace.
I was aware that I was under
the snow, that I was trapped.
I couldn't breathe.
My legs couldn't move.
My arms couldn't move.
But there was
absolutely no panic.
It was like this awareness
of this endless ocean
of peace and stillness.
God knows how long I was in
there for, but at some point,
I was thrust out, as
if I was on the leading
edge of this avalanche.
And it was then that
the panic kicked in,
because I was just trying
to suck as much oxygen
in as I could, you know?
The fear that I'd go
back and the possibility
that I could die just--
that really cranked
up the panic.
And I went back under.
And after a short time,
I was thrust out again.
And the avalanche come
to an abrupt halt.
When I got out, fortunately,
everyone else was out as well.
When we regrouped, I
thought, man, you know,
that was an amazing experience
of extended silence and peace.
If I could experience
that under the snow,
surely I could have it
in my day to day life.
Then I thought, the
only way, I think,
practically I can even do this
is to make a lot of money,
make it quickly, retire
early, and head to a beach.
I made a choice.
So I did.
I cranked it up.
I was already in business, but
I moved it up to the next level.
But what I actually
found was that I
was moving further away
from what I was after.
I started to experience more
worry, more stress, more
frustration.
I developed a habit
of insomnia at night.
I looked in the mirror
and just was like, mate,
what are you doing.
You look so unhappy.
And I thought, I've
got to change this.
I've got to change my
paradigm, if you like.
But life just kept
throwing big things at me.
My wife and I separated.
Not that much later,
I was diagnosed
with a tumor inside
my head that required
six weeks of radiotherapy.
And there was just an
ongoing series of events,
as if they were
trying to wake me up.
Sort of get on with it,
get on with the job.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I was 15.
Up until that moment, I didn't
know that another kind of life
or another kind of reality
existed, because I was coming
from a beautiful love bubble.
My dad, my friends--
I mean, it was beautiful.
I was just about to
go to high school
with some friends that
stayed overnight in my house.
A few guys with guns
came into my house
and tried to kidnap me.
I was able to run away
and I was able to hide
from the kidnappers.
And in the middle of that,
my dad, also the gardener,
and my grandfather
tried to defend me.
There was shooting and,
of course, killing.
I was able to see
everything from the distance
and from the window.
And I just heard like
in the background
a truck like spinning the wheel,
like [makes noise], you know?
So I just ran back to the
place that all the fighting
was happening.
I saw the gardener gone.
It was an impactful
experience when
you see that the body is there,
but there's no one there.
And then I saw my dad in
the stairs still moving.
He was still alive.
But he was unable to
talk, because the bullets
went through those lungs.
When I look into
his eyes-- well,
that was one of the most
amazing experience I ever had.
He just-- so much depth, wisdom,
love, service, giving, purpose.
It was strange in the
middle of so much darkness.
It was like he was telling me a
lot of things through the eyes.
It was like a mental connection.
I could hear everything, like--
everything.
And then, suddenly
he died in my arm.
The feeling of purpose, the
feeling of destiny, the feeling
of love, the feeling of
consciousness, really--
I mean, that was even a
million times stronger
than the experience of death.
That was more shocking,
because I was like, how come--
how come I can see this
potential love, or destiny,
or divine destiny,
actually-- like
I just put that word-- the
divine destiny be stronger
than the passing
away of a loved one.
And that just stuck me
in my head all my life.
It's like, what's that.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> There's a place within us--
this still, silent place--
which never comes and goes.
It's permanent.
And you can call that god,
you can call that light,
you can call that truth, you can
call it the underlying reality
of everything.
But there's one
thing that exists.
And to move into that as an
experience from a concept,
you need to dissolve a sense
of an individual intelligence,
an individual me, through just
bathing in this sea of silence
that's within us.
The sea of peace and
the sea of silence,
it's been there forever.
Some of us know it or
have known it as a child.
We've been able to touch that
place, and it felt like home.
It's always been.
And in fact, it's the only
thing in our existence
that's always been there.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It was the late '80s,
start of the '90s.
And it was the big upsurge of
the ecstasy nation in the UK.
There was raves everywhere.
It was the generation
thing to do.
Almost everybody was into it.
Yeah.
Using the drugs, the
partying, the whole experience
of that time in my life
was giving everybody
this sense of connection.
Everybody seemed to drop
all of their judgments, all
of their differences.
It was amazing.
It was so much different
to being just drunk.
The whole movement,
the whole generation,
was just into dancing and
just loving each other.
It went kind of off the
rails, you could say.
I ended up getting into a
lot of trouble with the law
and looking at a rather
large prison sentence.
My dad came to see me
while I was on remand.
He said, are you due to get out.
And I said, no.
And he said, good.
He said, it's the best
place you could be.
He was absolutely--
he was over the moon
that as bad as it could
have looked for me,
I wasn't going to die.
The wake up call for me
from that way of life
was when I was about
25, I'd had a son.
And so I decided that that way
of life wasn't going to work,
because I understood
the responsibilities
of raising a child.
I quit everything, and I
decided to work full time
and get back into a normal
life, as far as what
I could remember one was.
But it never really
seemed enough for me.
It felt like a poor excuse
for being very happy.
I decided that I really
needed to experience
that fullness,
that connectedness,
that same experience.
But I knew I couldn't
do it through drugs.
So I looked into the success
of rehabilitation and therapy.
And it turned out that the
rehabilitation unit I was in
had been going
for like 10 years.
And the success rate
was 2% of all the people
who came through.
What I found amazing was
the statistics the people
who don't bother going through
rehabilitation-- for them who
do it are 2%.
What became really apparent
was that the change only
happens at the point when you
are sick enough of the behavior
that you're doing which is
causing you the problems.
I didn't know how I
was going to do it,
but that choice in and of
itself made so many other things
available to me.
It just immediately changed my
whole take on my whole life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Got a good woman for my
soul, got whiskey for my sin.
Pray I got both when I leave
this bar in a car or a coffin.
And I'll ride this road
'til it takes me home.
Or I'll ride this
dirty road 'til I die.
>> In Mexico, teachers like
[? Modavi ?] are introducing
a new phase of rehabilitation
teaching ascension in prisons
to those who are ready
to embrace change.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
There ain't one
way to sing a song.
>> And the cool thing is that
25% of the people in this
facility, which houses
just under 2,000 prisoners,
meditate.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> It's something that's not
been done very often around
the world.
So we appreciate your openness
to introduce this program
into the prison.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
My feet are worn,
my lungs are hard,
and my heart's as cold as steel.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> After my dad died, started
drinking, drugs all day,
every day, for months, and
months, and years non-stop.
And I was looking
for the experience
I experienced when my dad died.
And nothing gave
me that-- nothing.
So I would just keep on looking.
Where is that?
And I remember once
I was in my house,
alone in my father's bedroom.
And I remember just crying.
I couldn't handle it anymore.
A friend of my
called me, and she's
like, Maghava, there's some
meditation course this weekend.
Why don't you come with us?
And I'm like, OK, I'll go.
There's nothing to lose.
When I arrived, I
saw the teachers.
And their presence-- they
had something that I never
experienced before.
Suddenly, they started to
explain the meditation--
[INAUDIBLE]
And I'm like, what's this.
And my heart's just like
[MAKES BEATING NOISE]..
And soon as they started
to explain the game,
everything started to become
really clear within myself.
I just knew that I found
what I was looking for.
Immediately I
started to experience
clear silence, awareness.
As soon as I started to play
with what the teachers were
telling me, I knew I needed to
actually let go of the seeking.
I actually needed to let go
of that idea of searching.
That's worth everything.
There's a lot of ideas
about spiritual journeys
or meditation.
One is like, let's
put the mind in black
or have no thoughts--
have no emotion.
And that's not true.
We are not going against what
the natural flows of life are.
There are emotions.
Of course there is emotions.
But I'm not [? calling ?] them.
I don't make a
story around them.
I don't make them personal.
I just watch them back.
The same as thoughts.
They don't take
all my attention.
They are just part of
the whole experience.
Then, of course, if
I live like that,
automatically there's peace--
automatically.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I remember when I
first learned to meditate,
the realization of
what I'd been doing--
I was quite shocked,
because, actually,
the point at which I
learned to meditate,
I was grinding my teeth--
breaking teeth at night.
I never woke up
feeling refreshed.
I was exhausted.
Two relatively young
children, trying
to be the perfect mother,
the perfect housewife,
the perfect neighbor,
the perfect teacher,
the perfect
everything, you know?
And I used to describe
the experience
as meeting myself coming back.
You know, going round in
ever decreasing circles.
I was exhausted.
Once I heard the explanation
and the background
for what meditation
is-- because,
really, this is the area
that meditation addresses.
We're living all the
time in the past.
I recognized how many times
I rehashed conversations
with people to try
and get it right.
It's like madness, isn't it?
For the last 12, 13
years, I've had cancer.
It started as breast cancer.
Now I've had treatment.
It's slowly developed.
And I now have secondaries
in the liver and in my spine.
And yet, thanks very much to
the meditation skills that
I've learned, just being
able to accept everything--
even something as extreme
and challenging as that--
has enabled me just to be
fully present now and back
to this moment again and again.
Really, it's a very
simple thing, meditation.
It just allows you to live open
and allowing in this moment.
That has been
absolutely key to my
being able to live joyfully
and peacefully no matter
what's happening to the body.
You know, my body's going
to do what it's going to do.
I can take a lot of actions, a
lot of strategies to assist it.
But ultimately,
I'm not in control.
And a lot of what we call
stress is because we think
we're in control, and we think
we know what's going to happen,
and it doesn't.
And we find that distressing,
or frustrating, or annoying,
or painful, or whatever,
because we're resisting what is.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The judgment day shall come.
>> Slowly but surely I was
starting to experience a bit
of respite from the stress.
I worked less.
I actually developed
a new relationship.
And I found I recreated the same
dynamic I had in my marriage,
where I was just so judgmental
the relationship failed.
And I was overwhelmed with
a sense of loss, you know?
Bitching and moaning
all the way through it.
But once she's gone, the
whiny voice in my head
couldn't deal with it.
I got to see that I need some
way to let go of that judgment
and let people be who
they are, rather than me
trying to control or want them
to be something different.
That was the major catalyst for
me to commit to myself 100%--
just to go for that piece,
go for their internal love.
I had to establish
that before I was
able to get close to having
a relationship again.
>> I was stressed.
I always seemed to be in
this fight or flight mode,
looking for the next
thing to go wrong,
trying to control
everything in my life.
And I didn't want
to do it anymore.
But I didn't know
what to do, really.
The great thing, too,
about going out with Greg
was that that showed
me how dysfunctional I
was in a relationship.
And I wanted that to change.
Like, I did.
I saw that I was
very close to love.
I was very afraid of love.
I suppose my little subconscious
mantra was that love hurts.
Don't let someone
get too close to you,
because you might lose
them or it'll just
hurt if they reject you.
And I got to understand that
that came from my brother
dying when I was
9 or 10 years old.
And that one minute,
I'm this happy kid
who's living in a kind
of a fantasy world,
still feeling that
connection to everything,
and then suddenly, it was like
life was turned upside down.
Like, whoa, your
life isn't safe.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If, for example, you could
think about real wonderful
moment in your life,
do you remember it?
Do you remember how
little self-absorption
there was in that moment?
Do you remember how
perfectly it unfolded?
That even in
retrospect, everything
played out in the
most wonderful moment
in the most miraculous
kind of way.
That there was nothing about
the moment we would change.
It was ideal.
We very often weren't even
responsible for the moment.
We were just able to
experience the moment.
We were present for the
unfoldment of that moment.
And do you remember how
alive that moment was?
How alive you felt
in that moment?
And I will suggest
to you that moment
was the most alive
moment of your life.
And I will say to you,
with the exception
of the intensity of your
most wonderful moment,
you're meant to live
that kind of life--
that alive, with just
an absolute sense
of wonder and awe.
That is your right to live
that kind of life continuously.
And we don't.
We just forgot.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Every weekend, we hear this
sort of crazy variety from
American dance band, to
rock and roll, to mariachi.
I was a seeker from the time I
was a young girl-- very young.
I learned how to meditate
when I was in college
and really had my first
tastes of stillness--
had my first taste of
the voices quieting down.
And of course, once that
happens, you want more.
And the way most of us
got more during that era
was to smoke, or
take psychedelics,
or anything that we could do
to duplicate that experience.
Occasionally, I felt
like I got lucky.
It was grace.
But in terms of having that
stillness permeate my life,
that wasn't happening.
I knew it was
there, but it always
seemed just out of reach.
We came to San Miguel,
and I couldn't believe it.
I was given a tool that
allowed me to sustain
that state with no drugs.
And it happened
very, very quickly,
which was the unexpected part.
You know, I thought I was
going to kind of get back
into the drudgery of meditation
and have some support
to do that.
But all of a sudden,
it was accessible.
And the thing that really was
different with this particular
practice was that
it was something
that I could do with my eyes
open as well as my eyes closed.
It had a huge effect
on me creatively,
because it was hit and
miss when I was working,
when I was writing.
Sometimes I'd be
listening to the voices
in my head, which is
never a good thing to do.
The voices in my head--
I don't think the voices
in any of our heads
are ever saying kind things.
They're always saying
really mean things.
I once said to somebody, if
I sat in a restaurant next
to a couple who were talking
to each other the way
my mind talks to me, I would
get up and leave the restaurant.
When you're creating, you
want to be in that flow.
That's the whole goal.
That's why you do it,
because that's the rush.
That's the fun.
But the minute those voices
start, they just pull you out.
So all of a sudden, here I was.
I had a tool that allowed
me to return to that flow
so that I could look at the page
after I'd been working and go,
wow.
Where did that come from?
What a surprise.
That is so amazing.
And know with every inch of
my being that I didn't do it.
And that is-- that's gold.
That is just gold.
The practice allowed me to
return to the state, which
is only presence.
I mean, it's not what
I thought, especially
after so many years of belief
practice on top of belief
on top of belief.
I was waiting for Thus
Spake Zarathustra.
I was waiting for John Philip
Sousa and fireworks in the sky.
And it wasn't about that.
It was just about being so
fully present that I was here.
It changed everything.
It had a huge effect on
every aspect of my life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> He says, watch your back.
You'll get lost out there.
There's a million ways to go.
And we don't know
our way back home.
>> I've definitely seen a
core belief that relates
to addiction.
And it is definitely
being the core belief
that I am not good enough.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> --alone.
And we don't know
our way back home.
>> The differences in
my life now are just--
they're just amazing.
And it's funny, because I
don't feel that far away
from who I actually was.
I just feel the only
problem there ever
was was that non-acceptance
that I am not good enough.
And yet, to step out
and make the decision
to go and actually
make the new choice
and to gain some awareness
on who you are, why you are,
what you are is priceless.
My son is 20 now.
And yeah, he's an amazing guy.
We have an amazing relationship.
We're just the best of friends.
He's had choices to go
out with his friends,
he's had choices
to take drugs, he's
had choices to do all the
things that all kids do.
And I've never taken any of
those choices away from him.
So his general state
of natural peace
has never really
been questioned.
And so yeah, he
makes good choices.
We have a very
cool relationship.
Yeah.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> And he says watch your back,
you'll get lost out there.
There's a million ways to go.
And we don't know
our way back home.
Cool.
>> Another very key thing,
particularly with critical life
diagnoses, is that you
face your mortality,
maybe for the first time.
It does become very obvious
that our well-being is created
very much by what we
put our attention on
and that we have choice.
It's empowering.
It's exciting.
And I can choose what
I put my attention on.
And that's not about denial.
I will do what my
body says it needs.
That may be going to bed.
It may be going
to have a massage.
It may be going back
to the consultant.
I mean, who knows, you know?
It's not about denial.
But it's about knowing
that there's so much more.
What's going to happen
is going to happen.
And there's a ease and a
fluidity with just accepting
everything.
Once you recognize that you
want something more, it comes.
It just comes.
I really do believe that.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> An authentic path,
of which there are very,
very few in the world, are
those that lead, ultimately,
to oneness, to an unbroken
awareness of silence,
which is the gateway
to enlightenment--
the gateway to freedom.
I was one of those
guys who said,
I don't have time to heal me.
You know, there's a world
that's in a dilemma here.
Let's get on with
helping others.
Let's heal the world.
And unfortunately, it
doesn't work that way.
You know, you have to do
the inner work yourself.
And it basically comes
down to two paths.
One path is a path of comfort.
And it's the path that
most humans are on.
And it's a path that, if
you're looking at a mountain
and climbing to the top of the
mountain to experience oneness,
it's a windy path
up this mountain.
And it just keeps going,
and going, and going.
It's not that it's a bad path.
It's just a very long path.
There's another path.
And it's like walking straight
up the side of Mount Everest.
And it's the path-- it's
called the path of the sages
in some traditions.
It's also known as
the path of heroes.
It's the path that
says, I'm willing to do
whatever it takes to wake up.
I'm willing to do
whatever it takes.
Let's do it.
Let's bring it on.
I want to experience everything.
I want to experience
wholeness, completeness.
The path of comfort, ironically,
it's not a comfortable path.
It is the funniest thing.
It's called the path of comfort,
not because it's comfortable,
because most of
humanity's on it,
and they're not comfortable.
It's called the path of
comfort because the decisions
we make on that
path are decisions
that we're comfortable with.
They don't push us.
They don't stretch us.
And so it's a comfortable
path, but there's
no growth in that path.
That's why the
growth is so slow.
There's a point
where you say, there
has to be more to life than
what I'm experiencing here.
And that's the very moment
that you're very blessed,
because you start
to look for more.
And when you do, very quickly if
you have passion towards that,
you start to move towards
the path of heroes.
Amazing.
Thanks.
>> I had the
opportunity to teach--
I don't know-- 200 prisoners.
And the first thing that came
out of my mouth was, what will
you even listen to
[? on ?] a 22-year-old?
And everybody was
like, yeah, actually.
Why?
And the first thing
that came to my mouth
was, probably, because
one of the person that
actually tried to kidnap and
killed my dad probably is--
might be sitting
here in this room.
And everybody just like--
not easy.
And they pay attention.
And I share with them
what I went through,
what have I discover,
and why am I
doing what I'm doing right now
to help people to find peace,
no matter the background.
When I think about my
dad and that experience,
the greatest gift
that experience
gave me was to
look for something
that would give me peace.
And probably now I feel my dad
closer than when I was a kid
and I was unconscious.
It's tricky to say, because
I don't experience my dad
as a human being with
a body, with a mind,
with a personality.
I experience my dad everywhere
all the time, as love,
as presence.
In many, many locations.
>> As improbable as it was
that I was going to find peace,
I was in a cafe, and there was
a brochure on the wall that was
promoting a meditation course.
And the brochure
said, ascension as
taught by the Ishayas
of the bright path.
And I thought, mate, what
the hell is this, you know?
It's wacky.
But what they were
saying resonated with me.
It resonated with me
with the experience
I had had in the avalanche.
And it also-- it
resonated with me, which--
that I realized I needed to find
that peace and love within me.
The first thing they
asked was, what's
the one thing you want more than
absolutely anything in life.
No one had ever asked me that
question, but it was obvious.
I wanted peace.
I wanted unbroken peace.
I wanted to experience love--
love within myself
and the ability
to love someone else
unconditionally.
And I wanted to be happy.
Not just moments of happiness,
but I wanted it all the time.
And the surprising
thing for me was
that all the other participants
wanted exactly the same thing.
The beautiful thing was that all
the negative aspects of my life
fell away.
I was sleeping much better.
My frustration and my stress
fell away very quickly.
And I was able to use these
techniques with my eyes open.
I'd been given a
tool that allowed
me to disengage the chatter
in my head and reveal peace.
And I knew that I was
onto the right thing.
>> Greg suggested I learn
some meditation techniques.
Meditation wasn't
something I did.
I thought it was for
hippies and not for me.
And I thought, well, I have--
there's nothing to lose.
I might as well go along
and see what this is about.
What I found was
that I'd been looking
for all those wonderful things
in life in the wrong places.
You know, the person I'm
with should make me happy.
My job should make me happy.
You know, I didn't take any
ownership for my own happiness.
And once I started to do
that and use these techniques
to rest inward, that's
where I found that it
started to reveal the real me.
You know, and the real
me was happy, was joyous,
was free to live fully.
The purpose of us
making this documentary
is to show people that peace
is possible and very much
to show them that it's
a personal choice.
If peace is possible
for the individual,
then we want to show that
it is possible for a group.
And if that's
possible, then it could
be possible for countries.
It could be possible
for humanity as a whole.
>> There are two
institutions in town.
We started about 20
years ago with the idea
of provide boys between the age
six, seven to 21, 22 years old
a possibility of becoming
somebody in life-- to provide
them with a future.
They have families, of course--
all of them or most of them.
But in all cases, they have
either a father in jail,
they have a mother with
prostitution problems,
with addiction
problems, you name it.
And the idea is
instead of having
these kids in the streets,
to provide them with a home--
a place for them to
stay, a place where
they can be safe, where
they can attend school,
to give this kids a chance of
being somebody in the future.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Thank you for the
welcome that you gave us.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> And the wonderful
shirts, we love them.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> So it's good we've
got three tables,
because we have three balls.
Can you find New Zealand?
>> It's the other
side of the world.
>> Since we start
meditating with the kids,
the violence has been reduced.
They also have different
ways to fix their problems.
They are more in peace.
We can feel it.
So we have a different way to
talk, a different way to play,
a different way to do
all the things we do here
in every moment.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> All the people who
comes here tells me,
here we can feel peace.
We can feel happiness.
And that's the most
beautiful thing
I have received from meditation.
We want to give them
all the opportunities
to be empowered with
love, with compassion.
This will make a
change in their lives.
And that's the great
power they will have,
because nobody can
take it from them.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> It's been a really powerful
and uplifting day for us.
Got to meditate
with 200 inmates.
It's more people than
I've ever meditated with.
And the stillness and the
peace in that facility
was palpable as a consequence.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The fascinating thing is that
everyone on the planet wants
exactly the same thing.
We all want to experience
unbroken peace, inner peace,
contentment, and happiness, yet
we seldom make it a priority.
And I say to people who are
not interested in learning
to meditate, just spend more
time doing what you love doing,
because the things we love doing
reveal peace and contentment.
All that's required
is to make a choice.
[MUSIC PLAYING]